good morning welcome to session 200 core
audio and depth please welcome your
digital audio plumber
James McCartney ok
ok I'm going to talk about a new
features for tiger in the audio toolbox
first the audio converter
first of all okay I guess I introduced
what's gonna happen I'm gonna speak
first and Doug Wyatt will speak about
some other new features for tiger and
Bill Stewart will speak so the so
alright the audio converter is is a what
is it it's it's a an API for a core
audio that allows you to convert
different audio formats from one to
another it does floating point integer
conversion interleaving and dieter and
leaving channels sample rate conversion
channel reordering and encoding and
decoding compressed formats and any
codec that's installed on system the
system can be used by the audio
converter to convert data the API looks
like this these are the calls you create
a new audio converter using audio
converter new and you set that
properties like setting the bitrate for
encoding and then you use audio
converter fill complex buffer to to fill
your data with the converted fill your
buffers with the converted data and you
pass a in book data proc for for getting
the input data to the converter it's a
pull model and then if you want to stop
a stream and restart the converter you'd
use audio converter reset to flush out
all the buffers and start over again and
then audio converter dispose will
dispose the converter
so new in tiger is a new call called
audio converter news specific and that
allows you to choose a specific
manufacturers codec by default when you
create a new Auto murder you get the
default codec for a certain format so
this allows you to specifically choose a
certain manufacturers codec you can see
the difference between audio converter
news Pacific and audio converter new is
that there's a an array of audio class
descriptions that are passed in and you
pass in a list of audio class
descriptions and it will choose the
earliest matching converter in the list
earliest matching codec in the list so
you would put the codec manufacturers in
the in the order that you preferred that
they matched the audio class description
looks like this there's three fields
that are four character codes the first
is the type which is either a deck or a
ink for decoder and encoder and then the
second one subtype should match the
format ID code for the for the format so
like AAC space for AC or dot mp3 for mp3
or whatever the format type is I am a
four and then the last for char code is
the manufacturer code so for Apple's AC
decoder it would look as shown here the
type is a deck for decoder
subtype is a AC space for AC and then
Appl for Apple manufacturer okay another
new feature for the audio converter is
the audio converter property settings
this is a CF array that you get back
from the audio converter that contains
the parameter settings for the converter
and you can use that for building a user
interface for the audio converter or
configuring another audio converter
similarly to the current one without
having to run through and do all the
parameter settings again the property
settings so so the the format of the CF
CF object is it's a CF array of CF
dictionaries for each converter that's
in the audio converter chain an audio
converter when it converts audio may
have several components inside of it
like a float to integer conversion or
sample rate converters or inter leavers
and DNR levers or encoders or decoders
and so each each sub converter that has
property settings in the chain will have
a CF dictionary that contains all the
property settings for that converter so
each converter dictionary has is a CF
dictionary and it has several keys the
first as' converter which is a
nonlocalized the first key is converter
and then the value for that key is the
nonlocalized name of the of the
converter this is like a key that you
would use for matching like if you want
to find this sample rate converter in
the audio converter chain you would go
through and look for sample rate
converter and that will always be the
same and then name the key name the
value for that is the localized name of
the converter so it would that would
change depending on the local language
and then parameters is a key that is a
dictionary it was an array of
dictionaries each for each parameter so
each parameter of the audio converter
will have a dictionary that describes it
and so the parameter dictionaries look
like this there's a key
the key key is the nonlocalized name of
the parameter which he is for matching
again and then name is the localized
name of the parameter for displaying to
the user and then available values is
all all the possible values for that
parameter so if it's sample rates it
would be a list of the sample rates
they're supported or if it's bit rates
it would be the list of the bit rates
that are supported there'll be all the
bit rates supported for a codec and then
limited values would be the ones that
would be enabled at the current time for
the current settings of the of the
converter or codec so so if if you have
the codecs set up for like in a C's case
for a large number of channels then you
can't choose lower bit rates so those
values would not appear in the limited
values list and then current value
contains the current value it's be an
index into the list of available values
and then hint is a boolean which tells
you if it's a normal or expert parameter
and in summary is a little help string
for the parameter so if someone moused
over it on the user interface you could
show that to the user to describe the
parameter okay so this is what a
dictionary looks like this would be for
an audio converter that just has a
sample rate converter in it so there's
the type the top level it's a CF array
there's one entry in it it's a CF
dictionary that that contains the
parameters for the sample rate converter
or contains the the keys for the sample
rate converter so the first key is
converter which is sample rate converter
that's what you could use for matching
to find it then name is sample rate
converter that will change depending on
the local language and then you have a
parameter array so that there's two
parameters for the sample rate converter
the first parameter is called quality
and this next parameter is called
priming method so then you have the
localized name for those parameters and
available values for quality would be
minimum low medium high maximum and then
for priming method would be pre normal
or none and then you have limited values
which is are is basically the same in
this case that doesn't change and
current value would be the index into
the available values array and summary
the help string you show to the user and
then the the hint field tells you
whether it's normal or expert so priming
priming method is a is an expert
parameter so okay that's the LD
converter so that's just the new
features basically in a short review of
the what it is but so audio file is
claudio's interface to audio files
parsing and add this is the newest
feature for Tiger is audio file
component so if you have an audio file
format and you say gee I wish car audio
could read this file format well you can
you can write your own format comparison
component and install in the system and
then everybody who uses the audio file
API will be able to read the format that
you wrote your component for so so that
their component plug-ins for the audio
file API and we're going to provide SDK
code so that you can write your own
component and there's this be a sample
component implemented there and now if
if your file container contains a
compressed format then you'll want to
write a it will be able to people will
be able to decode in encode to that data
format and then put it in your
file format or or some other file format
so this is the audio file component API
it's basically a mirror of the audio
file API the audio file API would just
call down to these and the most
important thing about the audio file
component API is that you don't call
this API it's called from the audio
toolbox framework your component your
audio file component implements the
component selectors that this API calls
in to so so this API is basically glue
code you can access it through the audio
toolbox if you wanted to test your
component directly but for normal use
it's it's it's meant to be called from
the audio file API calling air component
for the for the client so and the SDK
has classes that that implement those
calls so you would only have to subclass
one of the classes we provide in the SDK
to create your your audio file parsing
component so as an aside the audio codec
API is another similar it's a plug-in
API for the for the audio converter and
you don't call the other audio codec API
either it's it's meant to be called from
the toolbox by the audio converter so if
you write an audio codec or if you want
to convert data you shouldn't use the
audio codec directly she use the audio
converter so in the audio converter
instantiates the codecs when someone
requested to do a certain conversion so
and there's a sample codec
implementation in developer examples as
well okay so that sort of brings us to
the what's the sort of a philosophical
split between a container for data and
the
and the data itself audiophile API is
meant to deal with the container for the
data it doesn't when when you open an
audio file and you say I want PCM
samples out of this audio file provides
you access to the raw data as it is in
the file so if you want to convert that
from whatever format it's in to what
you're interested in may be PCM then you
would need to use the audio converter to
do that so if for extending the audio
file API you have audio file components
to support new file types and then to
extend what new data formats you can
handle you have the audio codec API for
writing components for for converting
compressed formats and then to find out
what capabilities are available in the
system for audio file you use audio file
get global info that allow you to find
out what file types are supported on the
system and then for audio converter you
use the audio format API which will tell
you what audio formats there that have
codecs installed in the systems and you
can get information about those formats
so well I just blew through those okay
so here's an example of using the audio
format API to find out what encoded
encoders are installed in the system
basically you have a get property info
to find out what's the size of the list
you need to allocate to get the format
ID back and then you call audio format
get properties and that will give you a
list of all the four character codes
that would go in the subtype field of
the audio class description or the
format ID field of a audio screen basic
description and so you have an array
there of the format IDs and then I have
a loop gear that goes through and ask
the audio format API to to get the
format name as a CF string and then I
printed out there so that's that's how
you could print out a list of all the
encoder in vail formats for encoding on
the system
and similarly here's a code example for
printing out all the file types that are
writable on the system it's a same setup
basically you call via file get global
info to find out how big of a lists you
need to allocate an audio file get
global info to audio file get global
info size for the size of the list and
auto file and key global info for
getting the list of file types those are
also four character codes and then you
can get the name CF string name for each
file type that's printed out in the loop
there as well
so ok another new feature in tiger is to
be able to get and set chunks and chunky
file formats like AIFF and WAV files so
and the data that you get back or set
should be in the raw native format of
the file
there's no parsing done on what the
contents of the chunk are so there's a
audio file property chunk IDs which
allow you to get the list of four
character codes for the chunks that are
in the file and then audio file count
user data will be if you have a certain
chunk ID that you're interested in and
you want to find out how many of that
chunk are in the file you can call this
and get the number of that chunk a
number of occurrences of that chunk in
the file and then get user data size
will tell you the size of a specific
chunky you pass it the file and the
chunk ID and the index of the chunk ID
in the file so if there's like four and
you want the second one they can pass
one for the index at zero based so and
then that will tell you the size of that
chunk so then you could allocate a
buffer and you use audio file get user
day
to to get the data for that chunk out of
the file and it's so if you if you're
writing an audiophile component to
support your own file format and it was
a chunky file format and there's these
call down into a selectors in the audio
file component API as well so you could
pass back your own chunks from me or
file format so alright so then user data
actually gets the data out of the file
there's a flags feel field for this for
it's basically reserved for future use
so then you pass it this size and the
buffer for the user data and then audio
file set user data is you pass it the
data and that's the size and the data
and it sets that on the file it puts
that adds that chunk to the file ok
another new feature in Tiger is the
audio file markers this allows you to
get or set audio file markers for file
formats support them and so the file
marker this is a structure and it
contains the name position and other
information about the marker ok and with
that it's time for Doug Wyatt thanks
James
so I'd like to introduce a few more new
features in the audio toolbox for tiger
we have new features for high level
access to audio files this builds on top
of the audio file API we have some new
audio units to support scheduled
playback of audio files and scheduled
playback of arbitrary our audio buffers
and
we have a new UI component which is in
cocoa which you can use in your
applications to present the user with
lists of audio formats and file formats
as James was just describing and we also
have an audio unit that supports
rendering on a separate thread so first
at the extended audio file API
it provides an even higher level of
access to an audio file compared to the
audio file API as James was mentioning
that we have good reasons for separating
the audio file and converter API at the
lower levels but it becomes really
useful at a higher level to just be able
to sequentially access an audio file and
an arbitrary PCM format those of you who
have our SDK you've seen the CA audio
files C++ class in there and this
basically replaces it so
diagrammatically how this fits into the
picture
extended audio file contains an audio
converter and an audio file it uses the
audio file API so you communicate with a
file on disk in its native file format
but through the embedded audio converter
it then presents your application with
the ability to just do i/o in the PCM
format that you prefer this is a very
simple API by comparison to the
lower-level ones pretty much all you
have to do is open or create a file
configure the converter if you're doing
encoding and then you can sequentially
read from the file or write to it if
you're encoding or or just writing PCM
you can seek around within the file down
to sample accuracy even within an
encoded file and you can also tell which
is the logical thing to have if you can
seek and so that's this this API is
described in this header file here
so the second new Tiger feature I'd like
to mention is the audio format selection
view which is a KOCO UI that's a
subclass of NS fuse so you can do things
like just embedded in a safe panel as
the accessory its subclass of all
meaning that it's got hooks so you can
decide things like well I know I always
want to write this particular file
format so don't show that menu and it
will as it says there let you select an
audio file type data format that's
appropriate to that file type any
encoding parameters sample rate and the
channel layout if it's more than stereo
I'll just give you a quick quick peek at
that and the demo please
and so here I've got it embedded as the
safe panel on an application and right
now I've got a iff select it's my
available audio data formats are just
integer formats but if I select a IFC
and something I've got access to the
encoded formats which can be embedded in
an ace are a IFC file and if I were to
select an encoded format I'd have a
button here where I could configure the
encoder that's not hooked up yet so this
this isn't in your seed but it will be
in future tiger seeds okay back to the
slides please okay so the way it works
you just give the view object the source
data format that you're encoding from
and it's channel layout if it's got more
than two channels and what you get back
or an audio file type ID like AIFF or
wave you get back the output data format
like float or 24-bit int or 16-bit int
bigger little endian whatever your
encoding to or just writing to and you
get audio converter properties back
again if your encoding okay I just did
that okay so next we have several new
audio units in tiger and there's a
couple of them which are of a new class
called generators meaning that they
don't take audio or MIDI in you either
interact with them programmatically by
setting properties on them or by let
bringing up their user interface and let
letting these or do something that you
know tells them to make noise of some
sort for example a test tone generator
this one the AU audio file player is
falls into the programmatic category for
the most part it's designed to be a nice
building block for playing back little
slices of audio files or large slices
with sample accurate precision
it's built on top of the extended
audiophile API which gives it the
ability to playback in coded formats so
it's particularly appropriate for
situations where you want to stream a
long file off of disk its sample
accurate so you could use it as a
building block and even a digital audio
workstation kind of application and it's
also usable in simpler situations where
you just want to play along file
asynchronously the one thing it's not
good for is playing short sounds if all
your application is going to do is play
a few short sounds here and there you're
it's not worth the overhead because the
Saudi again it will create a separate
thread for reading the audio off of disk
and you know if you've got a you know
200k audio file it's an alert sound or
something you don't need that thread
overhead you might as well just load the
file into memory and play it you can use
an s-sound to do that and you can also
use the system sound API switch are
really the best way to be playing alert
sounds on the system now so conceptually
the way that the audiophile player works
there's this hardware timeline if you've
ever looked at the timestamps going by
on an audio unit you'll see that they're
typically these giant numbers and it's
the number of samples since the hardware
was started so there's that timeline
that's going along and then to play the
audio files you in this example I've got
two events that two chunks of audio
files that I want to play at some point
along this timeline and instead of
having to know where on the timeline I
am I just construct my sequence of
events to be relative to time zero which
is when I'm going to start playing with
sequence of events so the one on the
Left I'm playing at time zero this file
a dot a dot a I have a Iife when I'm
playing the first hundred thousand
samples out of it
and I've got another chunk out of audio
file B that I want to play a little bit
later so that's how the events look that
I schedule when I want to have them play
relative to time zero and after that I
just need to set a start time and I can
do this in one of two ways if I'm in a
situation where I need to synchronize
very accurately and I know exactly where
on that audio devices timeline I want to
start playing those events I can specify
the start time in sample numbers the
other alternative in a simpler situation
is I can just say start now by passing a
start time of minus one so just to give
you a little more detail about how this
API or the Saudi again it is used you
open the audio files in your application
externally to the audio unit your
application owns those references of the
audio file not the unit so your
application keeps it open you pass an
array of audio file IDs to the unit so
you know when it comes time for it to
read off disk it will have the files
open you schedule the events that you
initially want to have play then you
prime the unit which is just a set
property call on it and what that does
is goes and fills up the disk buffers
enough so that when you do say start it
will have the data off the disk already
then you set the start time and as the
events play you get callback saying this
one's been done this one's been done and
in response to those callbacks or other
events in your application you can
always schedule additional events onto
the file player unit and at any time you
can just call audio unit reset and it
will stop playing and there's about
eight paragraphs of documentation on the
tiger seed in audio unit properties dot
H describing how to use this unit
programmatically and that is in your
seed
just to zoom in one more level here's
the structure that use for scheduling
regions to the audiophile it's got an
audio timestamp you can actually
schedule using sample numbers or hosts
times which can be useful sometimes and
the audio timestamp structures as you
may know contains both the sample number
and a host time that you have an
optional callback completion proc that
gets called when in the the region has
been either successfully loaded from
disk
well actually it's always called when
it's successfully loaded from disk
that's also used to tell you if it
didn't get it off the disk and play it
in time so the structure also contains a
reference to an audio file object and
you just say where in the file in terms
of sample frames and number of frames
that you want to apply and this can even
be in an encoded format for example it's
an mp3 file you know you say I wanted
sample 512 well that's a bit of the ways
into the first packet it will actually
seek into the middle of the packet and
begin playback there and I've got a
little demo application which
illustrates the new audio file so what
this does is lets me generate a random
playlist out of a bunch of audio files
on my hard disk I can say how long I
want the playlist to be and what the
minimum slice size is the longest one is
click that and this is a little slow cuz
it's actually parsing through all of the
frames of the mp3s and so it's generated
a playlist your other all the same
length that's no fun oh it's ok
[Music]
so it's my little music concrete player
it's so that's dynamically reading and
decoding the mp3s on the eyuth or rather
on the disk read thread and preparing
them to be played back so it wasn't
cheating and generating the playlist
ahead of time into Nadia buffer who's
actually playing those back as we went
okay so one related audio unit in fact
this one is a subclass or actually the
base class I'm sorry of Au audiophile
player is the a you scheduled sound
player and it shares a lot of the same
semantics like how does that the start
time on it in particular the difference
is instead of scheduling chunks of audio
files to it you give it audio buffers
and memory supply and one internal
client for this is the speech
synthesizer and if your application
dynamically generates audio into buffers
you may find this useful way to to pump
it out into a chain of audio units and
this units also documented in audio unit
properties that H and is in the seed the
last of the three melodia units I'd like
to talk about is the au deferred
renderer so this one is a converter
audio unit and the idea here is to have
it pull its input on a separate thread
from the one on which it's being pulled
for output and this lets you put a
processor intensive task on is on a
separate thread and set up on the
real-time audio thread so you can
process your audio in larger chunks at a
slightly lower priority there's
opportunities for taking advantage of
multi processing the the API is
documented in detail and audio unit
properties that H also and I'll just
give you an illustration of when you
might want to use that so here's an
example
it could be anything that I'm using as
my source here but it's an au audiophile
player and I've got a cpu-intensive
audio unit going to an audio output unit
and I'm running the hardwire at 128
frames which is around 3 milliseconds at
44.1 kilohertz
and the fullness of those green IO cycle
rectangles it is how much of each render
cycles being occupied by this CPU
intensive audio unit and so we're kind
of running on the edge here we're
probably consuming around 85% of the CPU
just rendering that audio so what you
can do if latency isn't supports so
important and you want to actually get
some more CPU power back is use the
deferred renderer so now on the upper
line here we have the source the CPU
intensive audio unit those are running
on a separate thread owned by the
deferred renderer which is on the lower
line here and it's still being driven by
the audio output unit so what this does
is it periodically just wakes up the
lower priority thread to do work and
pulls that at the larger grain which you
can specify so in this example we still
have our 128 frame i/o cycles but we're
only doing our rendering in 512 frame
cycles and depending on the algorithm of
course you know your mileage may vary
but in many algorithms you can get a
good performance gain by processing more
samples at a time so just to review I
mentioned the extended audio file API
which combines an audio file with audio
converter and all of you all these are
in the seed by the way of Panther
there's the audio formats to accept the
audio format selection view excuse me
that will be in the new core audio kit
framework we have three new programmable
audio units the au audio file player the
au scheduled sound player and the au
deferred renderer
and with that I'll bring up Bill Stewart
who's going to talk about Mac os10 and
OpenGL thank you okay so open il and Mac
os10 we had some conversations about
this last year in the games developer
session and I wanted to give you an
update of where we are so open al is is
just to give you some background if
people don't know what it is it's an
engine that's designed for games it's
designed to be a complement to OpenGL so
to follow similar conventions
coordinate systems and so forth it's
being originally developed at creative
labs is now a specific website devoted
to it it supports multiple platforms and
has for a number of years I think it's
been available for about four years now
so in the PCs that there's
implementations for the original Mac OS
Mac OS 10 Windows and Linux and you'll
also see some support that was recently
announced that games to alga conference
for game consoles Playstations GameCube
and Xbox so it's it's a pretty broad API
and it was one of the things that
attracted us to support this because of
its broad reach to give you some example
of the games that are supporting it in
brackets there's a list of the platforms
that are doing it so this is quite a
good collection of games the open our
website actually has a full list of all
of the different games and and and
companies that are supporting it so if
you're interested to see the sort of
coverage that's a good good website to
look at and in the games developer
conference of 2004 we announced that we
were going to support this in the API in
the in provided implementation for it
the implementation that we did was based
on preexisting core
do services and I'll give you a bit of
an overview of how we've done this we
also made the source available for the
implementation of the Cordia OPI for it
on the website open al has both hardware
and software implementations you've got
implementations that are implemented in
sound cards like creative soundblaster
and so forth and there's also
implementations that run on CPUs ours of
course is running on the CPU and one of
the things we're announcing in this
conference is that we're going to be pre
installing the framework in Tiger it's
actually on your seed tiger seed disks
at the moment open al framework that's
essentially what's available on the open
our website as we continue to develop
and enhance the open al2 core do bridge
we'll be putting the source back into
the open air all organization so it's
also a good reference if you want to see
how to use choreo in different ways as
well and we fully support the open
source nature of open now so it's good
news I think one of the the things
that's really unique about open al on
Mac OS 10 is that it uses system sound
services and automatically will
configure to the the system that the
user has currently installed so if you
have a surround system and the user has
gone and set up the surround in audio
MIDI setup then it will be automatically
configured and we'll just play through
the surround system if you just got
stereo then the open al logic that sits
in the implementation will find it's a
stereo device and then the mixers that
it will do will be for stereo and you
can have a look at how to configure
systems which you would need to do if
you're doing any kind of multi-channel
surround playback here which is in
application utilities there's a some
abilities there to go in say where you
speakers are on my channels and so forth
and having done that then you're just
ready to go and that's system-wide
service so other applications that are
doing surround I will just work in the
that this does excuse me this is a
diagram of the implementation that we we
do for it the it uses two audio units it
uses the output unit Apple unit au has
an order unit interfaces to the device
that it's we recommend very strongly
unless you doing very particular things
with devices that you use the output
unit rather than the audio device opioid
it provides a lot of management of just
device State that's very handy for you
the output unit is just going to get
data and output it from the device and
it's getting data from the 3d mixer
audio unit this audio unit can take any
number of it puts it has different
parameters that you can set on the
inputs like a pitch parameter distant
parameters that can be particular for
each input you can have mono or stereo
inputs and the 3d mixer will just take
it we'll take our pan important
coordinate for each input place them in
a sound field you can describe with the
3d mix of different painting algorithms
one is called vector panning vector
panning we'll just look at the location
of a sound let's say it's there and it
will look to the closest two speakers
and all just place the sound in those
two speakers and the one we use in open
area I think it's the more pleasing
algorithm for this sort of usage is a
sound field approach what that will do
is that in each speaker it creates a
representation of the sound field at
that location so if you have a sound
over there that sound will be in all of
the speakers but it will be very quiet
in this one and as you get closer to the
location of the sound it's loud and so
they're the kind of things of the 3d
mixer does it was also the sort of
things that they do on the creative
cards and or another hardware
implementations then the inputs to the
3d mixer are al sources and a source
object is something in the open API that
you
and manipulate that you can get
properties on and so forth
one of the main things the IPL source
has is a list of buffers that you can
play and you can be sharing buffers
between different sources the buffer in
heparin format characteristics monitor
different sample rates and the the game
engine is practical cuter buffers up to
be played now in in the line between the
two buffers were using a converted
either James went and that'll take the
opposite convert there we've spent some
time doing optimizations to the bleeders
that most of that path and we call in
the opener library that uses your API to
wait and it's not actually part of the
and that's the Apollo API supports in
these buffers so what we wanted to do
when that it was going to be efficient
for you baby
play audio and we you can be given Tokyo
[Music]
so we spent on it optimize just
rendering stairs seeing with the
problems sitting where we could optimize
performance make sure they that we were
looking at
one of the things that distance will do
is frequency so there away the you'll
hear less high frequencies coming
through and there's also a volume
attenuation open al you can specify very
nice volume curve and we to put a
similar thing in the 3d mixer for quite
some time where you can say well you
know in this distance the sound do not
get louder or choir so you could imagine
like up to a bigger thing and you know
bored of that be it moved further away
the stamp should get quieter and then
can't hear the sound at all and so you
can specify those conditions when you're
doing a guy so that your sound
characteristics of how they're going to
be tell again and you if you've got an
engine sitting the corner over here then
in this room never going to get far on
this engine so you so so that at maximum
distance the the attenuation maybe just
like 40 DB down or something and or it
would be you know in the case that the P
that's over there as well and it could
be like 20 DB and so those kinds the
sorts of things we went through and we
were looking at doing this because this
enhances the game experience and as we
went through all this optimization work
we were managed to gain about a 50%
improvement in the 3d mixer or a unit as
a part of this work will I filed a
couple of times lizard uses the this is
directly so we had a look at some of
their pieces of our system and we we
overall I would say about 50%
improvement in rendering from what we
had in Panther and then give you some
idea of the the difference between
implementation we provide now on the
implementation that we have previously
for Mac OS 10 on a power book one codes
before we talked about a 5%
like to make 64 sports in stereo
so it's 5% so that's that's not doing
sort of some fancy stuff you you'll see
a bit of more of life if you're doing
other kinds of things but if you think
of a one gig PowerBook g4 that's that's
not a high-end gain in today's standards
we're not 5% on a 2.5 Joule thief I've
this is a you know fairly representative
system and the kinds of improvements we
saw the the next best implementation
that was previously available was about
20% for that scientist so overall with
the improvements to the 3d mixer plus
more optimal bleeders in the audio
converter and so forth we're down at
about 25% what previously evolved so
that should be really good new to you
preview when you're looking at your game
and I think you've heard enough of all
of us talking so we're going to kill
scallions and so Unreal Tournament and
maybe box around and we've got incoming
mobile speakers here so
we got the front left are you guys
hearing Sam all right it's hard to tell
from up here as all sort of moving
around you can say like probably the
people can around here getting the best
listening experience I'm not you can see
how the sound is moving around
[Music]
you can hate you're supposed to have a
pounds of hot piping in and out you can
hear some of the distance or and that's
the things which is it
[Music]
we have a battle on that list